So, here, I've decided to train my models for 100 epochs.
This took some time, but whenever I train on CPU,
I know that I can take the training time to take
a break and make some tea or read some papers.
First, I'm training my discriminator.
This is what my complete training loop looks like.
First, I'm training the discriminator.
Before doing anything, I'm zooming out any accumulated gradients.
Then I'm training on real images.
These are images that I've gotten from my train loader,
and I'm passing it into my discriminator D to get an output,
and I called these logits D_real.
I know that my discriminator wants these logits to be close to one.
So, I'm calculating my real loss to see exactly how close these are to be in true labels.
This is my d_real_loss,
and I'm making sure to smooth these labels so that this loss will
be numerically stable and my discriminator will generalize better.
Next, I'm doing something similar only using generated fake images.
So, as I went over before,
I'm generating fake images by giving my generator a latent vector
of 100 random uniform values between negative one and one.
The generator outputs a 784 length vector for each fake image in a batch,
and I can pass these to my discriminator.
This will give me some logits that I'm calling D_fake.
My discriminator wants these outputs to be close to zero.
So, I'm calculating my fake loss to see how close these outputs are to zero.
This gives me my d_fake_loss.
Finally, I'm adding both of these losses up d_real and d_fake to get my total d_loss.
I'm using this loss to perform backpropagation and optimization.
This looks pretty typical though note I'm using
my d_optimizer to update my discriminators weights.
Then I'm moving onto training my generator.
My steps here would to see how the discriminator
performs when it sees generated fake images.
So, I'm generating some new fake images here using the same code as above.
Then, I'm passing these images to my discriminator to get my outputs D_fake.
This time, I know that my generator wants
these outputs to be as close to one or real as possible.
This is our adversarial loss.
So, I'm actually going to use my real loss function
to see how close these applets are to the label one.
This gives me my total generator loss and I can use this
to perform backpropagation and d optimization.
So, this step will update the weights of my generator.
Now, I have something to print some loss over time and after each epoch,
I'm recording the discriminator and generator loss.
I've also saved some generated samples and I used 16 fixed latent vectors.
These were set before the training loop.
I created this fixed data above our training loop just to
see for comparison purposes how our samples change over time.
I'm using the library pickle to save these samples.
So, let's actually look at the training behavior.
At the beginning, I can see a kind of high generator loss.
But it seems to fluctuate along with the discriminator over time.
In fact, I recorded the discriminator and generator loss after each epic.
Here, I'm displaying them on a graph.
The discriminator is this line in blue and
the generator is this more spiky line in orange.
Now, this is not a typical training process because
the generator is trained it's best to trick the discriminator this whole time.
So, it's very normal to see an initial decrease in loss,
and then a lot of sort of up and down fluctuation.
This indicates that both of our networks are training at the same time.
Now, if I hadn't smooth to my real labels during
training or something about my initial hyperparameters was off.
This is probably where I would see some unstable behavior.
By unstable, I typically mean that the discriminator loss
would flatten while the generator loss grows or gets quite high.
But with labels moving and I'd say,
this is all expected behavior.
We can see that these both reached final values around one or 1.5.
But this really only gives us so much information.
The best method to see how our models have trained,
is to look at some sample outputs from our generator.
So, here, I have a helper function view_samples that will take
in a list of sample fake image vectors and display some of them.
There's also takes in an epoch for which to view samples at.
So, let's use this to look at the images we saved during training,
and I'm just loading those in here.
Then, I'm passing in the index of our last epoch,
and I can use negative one like list indexing in this case,
and displaying our samples.
Recall that, I generated samples using some fixed latent vectors,
16 of these vectors and so at the end of each epoch I saved 16 samples.
You can see that the generator is able to produce some pretty convincing zeros.
Some threes, and fives,
and nines and others you see these sort of noisy artifacts,
which could have to do with our input latent vector z.
Generally, these look a lot like the handwritten digits in our training set,
which is exactly what we wanted.
One thing that I like to do to,
is to look at how the samples improved over time and as we trained.
So, I have another cell that prints out the samples after every 10 epochs.
So, this cell is printing out generated samples after 10-20 and up to a 100 epochs.
I can see that these generated images start out as uniform noise.
Then the generator learns to make only the center white and the rest is black.
As we train from 10 to 20 to 30 epochs,
we can see that our generator is learning to refine
this noise into shapes that look more and more like our handwritten digits.
At the end, I can see some pretty convincing 1,
6 and zeros and so on.
Now, one last thing I want to show you,
is that we can now use our train generator to create
images from any latent vector in a latent space.
So, I can create any new random vector z,
turn it into a float tensor and pass it to our train generator
and here I'm setting our generator into evaluation mode because it's no longer training.
I can display these randomly generated samples using
my function and getting just the one batch of samples here.
As many times as I run this cell,
I should get a new batch of generated samples.
What's interesting is that the latent space is a large space.
So, we may find that certain vectors result in
generated images that look sort of like the numbers we know.
But might occupy a strange in-between state.
Say in between the three and an eight,
or one and nine and other vectors
might result in some really nicely rendered handwritten digits.
We'll actually see that this latent space is really interesting,
that we can transform vectors in latent space to see if
certain dimensions correspond to certain features like size, curvature, and so on.
So, experiment with this code and see what kind of generated samples you can make.
In the next lesson, you'll learn about improving this formulation
and using convolutional layers to make a deep convolutional GAN.
最新课程跟课件还有一对一辅导请加wx：udacity6